CONTENTS
  1. What is Gallery?
  2. How do I install Gallery if I have shell access?
  3. How do I install Gallery if I only have FTP access?
  4. My webserver doesn't have NetPBM!  Help!  Aiee!
  5. How do I customize Gallery?
  6. How do I use Gallery as a PHP-Nuke 5.0 Module?
  7. I can't upload large files!

1. WHAT IS GALLERY?

Gallery is a web based photo album viewer/creator.  For the latest
information, check out the web site:

	http://gallery.sourceforge.net/

2. HOW DO I INSTALL GALLERY IF I HAVE SHELL ACCESS?

Installing and configuring Gallery is done via a set of web pages.
To enable these web pages you need to log onto your web server using
telnet or (preferably) ssh, go to the gallery directory and at the
prompt (which usually ends in '%' or '$') type:

	sh configure.sh

Then go to the main Gallery URL and it will drop you into the
configuration wizard.  This will walk you through the process of 
configuring Gallery.  When you're done, type:

	sh secure.sh

And it will turn off the configuration application.  Gallery won't run
if it is not in secure mode.

3. HOW DO I INSTALL GALLERY IF I HAVE ONLY FTP ACCESS?

The process is pretty much the same as if you have shell access.
The complicating factor is that you can't run the 'configure' and
'secure' shell scripts.  You'll have to simulate running the 
scripts by using FTP commands.  

In order to FTP Gallery up to your web server you'll need to unpack it
locally and then use FTP to copy it file at a time to the web server.
The first time you configure it, you'll need to create two special
files called "config.php" and ".htaccess" on the remote server.  The
easiest way to do this is to create an empty file (we'll call it
"empty-file") on your local machine.  Then upload that file as both
"config.php" and ".htaccess" using ftp.  ONLY DO THIS THE FIRST TIME
you install Gallery or you'll overwrite your existing config file!

YOU TYPE:
	ftp> cd gallery
	ftp> put empty-file config.php

YOU SEE:
	local: empty-file remote: config.php
	150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for 'config.php'.
	226 Transfer complete.

YOU TYPE:
	ftp> cd gallery
	ftp> put empty-file .htaccess

YOU SEE:
	local: empty-file remote: config.php
	150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for '.htaccess'.
	226 Transfer complete.

At this point, you need to make both of these files writable.  You
can do this:

	ftp> cd gallery
	ftp> chmod 777 .htaccess
	ftp> chmod 777 config.php

Now you're all set to configure gallery so go to the Gallery web
page.  When you're done and it prompts you to make the gallery secure
again, you need to change your permissions back again:

	ftp> cd gallery
	ftp> chmod 755 config.php
	ftp> chmod 755 .htaccess

That's all it takes!

4. MY WEBSERVER DOESN'T HAVE NETPBM!  HELP!  AIEE!

Many servers don't have NetPBM installed on them.  Or if they do, they
have an old version.  Gallery has been tested with version 9.9 and up.
Some older versions are missing a few critical components (like JPEG
or PNG support).

To solve this problem, we're making statically compiled binaries of
NetPBM available on the Gallery website.  I'd suggest that you first
go through the Gallery config wizard and see if it complains about
NetPBM.  If it complains, you can hunt around on your machine to see
if NetPBM is installed (it's quite often found in /usr/bin,
/usr/local/bin or /usr/local/netpbm) and provide that path to the
Gallery config wizard.

If all that fails, you can download binary versions of NetPBM from the
Gallery download page.  The binaries are compiled statically so they
have no dependencies.  We don't yet have binaries for all systems, but
we're working on it (in fact, if you have a system that isn't
supported and would like to be of assistance, please contact us and
we'll give you instructions on how to make what Gallery needs).

The FreeBSD binaries *should* work on most/all flavors of FreeBSD for
intel, and the Linux-RedHat binaries *should* work on most/all flavors
of Linux for intel. However, they haven't been tested extensively. If
you find that they don't work please let us know and we'll compile a
version for the specific software/hardware flavor that you're
running. Download and install these binaries somewhere on your system
(it's perfectly find to upload them via FTP to a virtual server) and
then tell Gallery where to find them in the config wizard.

Don't forget to make these files executable!

5. HOW DO I CUSTOMIZE GALLERY?

Documentation on this is a bit sketchy right now, sorry.  Online
context-sensitive help is on the way.  But in the meantime, it'd
be nice to change the way that Gallery looks and feels without
having to hack PHP.

There are two main ways that you can customize Gallery.  First, you
can change the theme by modifying its style sheets.  In the "css"
directory is a file called "gallery_style.css.default".  Copy
that to (in the "css" directory still) "gallery_style.css".  Tweak
this file to your heart's content.  

The other way is to customize the gallery header and footers.  There
are headers/footers for the main Gallery, for albums and for photos.
In the "html_wrap" directory you can take any file that has ".default"
and make a copy of it with the same name but without the ".default"
at the end and modify it.  

If you come up with cool themes feel free to send them to me and I'll
include them in the gallery package (or create a theme library of some
kind).  

6. HOW DO I USE GALLERY AS A PHP-NUKE 5.0 MODULE?

It's very easy to make Gallery work with PHP-Nuke 5.0.  All you have
to do is either move your Gallery directory into the modules directory
under PHP-Nuke, or create a symlink, ie:

	% cd php-nuke/modules
	% ln -s /path/to/my/gallery gallery

If you move your gallery, be sure to run through the config wizard to
make sure that all your paths are correct.

Now, you'll be able to get to your gallery directly via its new URL
(ie, http://your.server.com/nuke/modules/gallery) or from your Nuke
site (ie http://your.server.com/nuke/ -- then look for the "gallery"
listing on the main menu).

7. I CAN'T UPLOAD LARGE FILES!

PHP imposes a restriction on the size of a file upload.  This may get
in the way of uploading large zip files.  To increase the limit, you
can set the both the "upload_max_size" and "post_max_size" parameters
in your system's php.ini to a large values (like "1000M" for 1000
megabytes).  Gallery attempts to modify those values in the local
.htaccess file, but not all servers are set up to pay attention to
that file so you may have to do it by hand.

Even so, there is a limit to the size of a file that PHP can handle, 
even if you remove this restriction.  Users have reported having issues
uploading files greater than 20MB.  Your mileage may vary.




